hello to you a warm welcome to the
program I'm Ben Thompson now the Hamas
run Health Ministry says gaza's largest
medical facility that's the alifa
hospital has been forced to suspend
operations because it has run out of
fuel that comes amid reports of
intensified fighting close to a number
of hospitals in the territory overnight
the BBC has heard from a doctor at the
alifa who says that its intensive care
units had been hit separately though he
says because of fuel shortages two
patients who are on ventilators have
died one of them he says was a baby
according to the World Health
Organization there are currently 130
babies on incubators in Gaza 45 of them
are believed to have been at the alifa
hospital well the Gaza Health Ministry
says 39 of them are now at serious risk
of death given the lack of fuel and
therefore a lack of power take a Liston
to what that surgeon at alifa hospital
told us in this update
lost two patients who were in a
ventilator one in the ICU one in the Nal
ICU unit it is very very dangerous very
critical situation there is no water
even in the main building no electricity
no food even and no fuel the generators
stopped to work in the main sub
speciality building shooting and
bombardment everywhere you hear it at
every seconds here around the shifa
hospital and no one can get out from the
shifa hospital no one can come to the
shifa hospital situation is very very
very dangerous and the people who H
tried this morning to evacuate from the
hospital they were have been shooted in
the streets uh some of them they are on
the they are got killed some of them
they are got injured no one can arrive
to the hospitals we are in the main
building of the hospital no uh no we
cannot get outside of the building
because uh there is a shooting
everywhere we don't have electricity we
don't have water we don't have even the
food and and we are afraid the in the
middle of the night we don't we lost the
electricity to the main ICU and to the
newal ICU and our engineer during their
walk to the uh to maintain this issue
one of the team was hit in the neck and
he got paralyzed we we don't we don't
want to have any uh outbreaks due to
this dead bodies who are outside the
main refrigerator it is not working more
because we don't have a fuel to run this
generator this is that issue
now well Israel's military has been
closing in on Northern Gaza the purple
areas on this map show the approximate
location of soldiers as fighting ramps
up in Gaza City well the international
charity msf Medan Frontier says that
unless there is a ceasefire alifa and
other hospitals will turn into
graveyards they say Israel has
repeatedly accused Hamas of using alifa
to conceal an underground Command Center
but Hospital staff have denied it
meanwhile in an interview with the BBC
the French President Emanuel macron has
called for Israel to stop killing babies
and women in Gaza Now France like the UK
has prescribed Hamas as a terror
organization with the details here's our
correspondent Nick
beak this was Israel's aerial attack on
Gaza overnight an unrelenting barrage
like most Knights over the past 5 weeks
Israeli forces have now surrounded Gaza
City's major hospitals where they say
Hamas have built headquarters
underground but thousands of patients
and those just trying to seek shelter
are stranded on what is now a Frontline
of the fighting The Red Cross says
hospitals in Gaza have reached a point
of no return France's president Emanuel
macron once again condemned Hamas but he
told the BBC that Israel a country he
called a partner and friend had no
justification for its continued bombing
of Gaza de
facto today civilians are
bombed de facto these babies the ladies
these old people are bombed and killed
there is no reason for that and no
legitimacy so we do urge Israel to stop
I just remind everybody international
law I call for a ceasefire and I will
urge them for a ceasefire for minute
against this fire in response the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu said world leaders should be
condemning Hamas not Israel his
government said once again it was
targeting Hamas not
civilians meanwhile the families of
hostages taken by Hamas on October the
7th are desperate for their release Tom
hans's 8-year-old daughter Emily was
kidnapped he had this message for her Ro
waiting for her
um we know we're going we're going to
get you
back be strong every
day and uh wait we're coming to get you
we're coming to get you home we going to
bring you
home tens of thousands have been making
the journey South to what Israel tells
them is a safe place for their families
but it feels like nowhere in Gaza is
safe Nick beak BBC News
Jerusalem well a little while ago I
spoke to Nick beak who's in Jerusalem he
sent us this update the Israeli Defense
Forces have been holding uh a briefing
here today and journalists were able to
put to them some of the accounts that
are coming out out of the uh the alifa
hospital including the the very Vivid
account there we heard from the surgeon
and the Israeli position on this is that
Hamas has created the situation whereby
a hospital hital is in effect a
legitimate military Target so by that
the Israeli forces are saying that Hamas
has created this control and Command
Center Center underneath the hospital
from which it's directed operations and
has been planning atrocities on is
Israeli soil so that is what the
Israelis are saying they were also uh
really unwilling to be drawn on some of
the very Vivid accounts of what's been
happening in terms of civilians in the
in the crossfire the Israelis saying
that they've spent the last four weeks
trying to evacuate hospitals urging
people to move out of them but said that
Hamas has been holding patience and
other people basically as human Shields
and has been preventing them from
leaving saying that there have been
checkpoints that have been set up to
stop people moving out uh the the IDF
spokesperson though did concede that
there were thousands of people within
the courtyard of the Osa hospital so
that really gives you an indication of
just how perilous a state the the
civilians and other patients are who of
course moved to hospitals thinking
they'd be in one of the the safest
places in Gaza but as we've seen it
appears that no place within the
territory is
safe so our correspondent there Nick
beak who's in Jerusalem